my seven favorite social media tools
that are free
do you know what the second third fourth
and fifth most popular website have in
common in this world let me give you a
hint it's youtube facebook twitter and
instagram what they all have in common
is they're all social websites social
media is popular so how can you leverage
it to get more traffic to your website
sure you can hire people to help you out
but you may not have the option because
it costs money on the flip side there
are a lot of free tools that you can use
that can help you out and if you
leverage them you'll get more social
media traffic here are seven free social
media tools that you have to check out
tool number one socialblade socialblade
is a free analytics tool type in
anyone's username and you can see their
social stats for any of their social
profiles here's my social status for
youtube
the reason i like socialblade is you can
see the daily subscriber growth when you
see a pop
look for the content that was posted on
that day it'll give you insights on the
type of content people love that your
competition is posting on you should
consider creating content similar to
that on your social profiles
tool number two
manychat with social media you never
know what the algorithms are going to do
it's tough to continually get traffic
from these social sites using tools like
manychat you can keep communicating with
your subscribers especially through
facebook messenger instagram direct
messages and sms
give it a whirl it's not hard to use
tool number three hootsuite there are
tons of social platforms out there and
it's hard to keep up with all of them
using his suite you can easily post to
all the social platforms using that one
simple tool their free plan allows you
to easily manage two platforms and sadly
you gotta pay when you wanna manage more
this way you can consistently post on
all the main social platforms that
you're trying to leverage see if you
don't post consistently ideally daily
you won't generate as many new followers
each week and it's hard to keep up with
that that's why you want to use a tool
that just helps you do it tool 4
exploding topics if you haven't checked
out exploding topics make sure you do so
it's a tool by my friend brian dean it
allows you to see what's exploding on
the web right now especially on the
social web if you create content around
those topics you'll find
others are interested in it and you'll
gain more likes and even more followers
but be careful as you need to make sure
that the content you create around these
exploding topics needs to be relevant to
your overall social profiles for example
i talk about marketing i wouldn't create
content around fashion even if it was
exploding in essence you want to stay
relevant tool five mailchimp you're
probably wondering how the heck is the
email tool like mailchimp related to
social media well have you ever heard
the saying that the money's in the list
when you have all these social followers
on social media you need them to join
your list and an easy way to do so is to
get them to opt into your email list so
by using tools like mailchimp you'll be
able to more likely stay in touch with
your audience this is important because
social algorithms keep changing and it's
harder and harder to make sure that your
followers see your content in essence
your reach keeps getting crammed down
unless you're willing to spend money on
ads and through email you can
continually stay in touch and convert
them into customers
tool six linktree have you noticed that
it isn't easy to monetize your social
following
a lot of that is because you can't
really promote all your products and
services but by using linktree you can
have one link that you push them to from
your social bios from these platforms
and they can pick the services and
offerings that you have and pick which
one's right for them it's a great way to
let your followers pick their own
journey and figure out where and how you
want to engage with them
tool 7 canva social media is visual
people want to engage with beautiful
content that is readable and ideally
unique through canva you can create tons
of social content on almost anything
from adjusting images to even video to
even creating let's say carousels that
you would post on let's say instagram
canva can literally do almost anything
and best of all it's free
heck you can even use it to create
infographics now if you need help with
your social media marketing or even
digital marketing check out my ad agency
np digital we were the performance
marketing agency of the year because we
provide amazing results and if you enjoy
this video like it share it tell the
people about it thank you for watching